Hyperledger Fabric Model:
This section outlines the key design features woven into Hyperledger Fabric that fulfill its promise of a comprehensive,
 yet customizable, enterprise blockchain solution:

Assets — Asset definitions enable the exchange of almost anything with monetary value over the network, from whole foods
to antique cars to currency futures.
Chaincode — Chaincode execution is partitioned from transaction ordering, limiting the required levels of trust and
verification across node types, and optimizing network scalability and performance.
Ledger Features — The immutable, shared ledger encodes the entire transaction history for each channel, and includes
SQL-like query capability for efficient auditing and dispute resolution.
Privacy — Channels and private data collections enable private and confidential multi-lateral transactions that are
usually required by competing businesses and regulated industries that exchange assets on a common network.
Security & Membership Services — Permissioned membership provides a trusted blockchain network, where participants know
that all transactions can be detected and traced by authorized regulators and auditors.
Consensus — A unique approach to consensus enables the flexibility and scalability needed for the enterprise.

HLF Network:
Components of a Network
A network consists of:

Ledgers (one per channel – comprised of the blockchain and the state database)
Smart contract(s) (aka chaincode)
Peer nodes
Ordering service(s)
Channel(s)
Fabric Certificate Authorities

Consumers of Network Services
Client applications owned by organizations
Clients of Blockchain network administrators

Identity
What is an Identity?
The different actors in a blockchain network include peers, orderers, client applications, administrators and more. Each
 of these actors — active elements inside or outside a network able to consume services — has a digitial identity
 encapsulated in an X.509 digital certificate. These identities really matter because they determine the exact permissions
 over resources and access to information that actors have in a blockchain network.

 A Simple Scenario to Explain the Use of an Identity
 Imagine that you visit a supermarket to buy some groceries. At the checkout you see a sign that says that only Visa,
 Mastercard and AMEX cards are accepted. If you try to pay with a different card — let’s call it an “ImagineCard” —
 it doesn’t matter whether the card is authentic and you have sufficient funds in your account. It will be not be accepted.

 Scenario

 Having a valid credit card is not enough — it must also be accepted by the store! PKIs and MSPs work together in the
 same way — a PKI provides a list of identities, and an MSP says which of these are members of a given organization that
 participates in the network.

 PKI certificate authorities and MSPs provide a similar combination of functionalities. A PKI is like a card provider —
 it dispenses many different types of verifiable identities. An MSP, on the other hand, is like the list of card
 providers accepted by the store, determining which identities are the trusted members (actors) of the store payment
 network. MSPs turn verifiable identities into the members of a blockchain network.

 What are PKIs?
 A public key infrastructure (PKI) is a collection of internet technologies that provides secure communications in a
 network. It’s PKI that puts the S in HTTPS — and if you’re reading this documentation on a web browser, you’re probably
 using a PKI to make sure it comes from a verified source.

 There are four key elements to PKI:

 Digital Certificates
 Public and Private Keys
 Certificate Authorities
 Certificate Revocation Lists

 Digital Certificates
 A digital certificate is a document which holds a set of attributes relating to the holder of the certificate. The most
 common type of certificate is the one compliant with the X.509 standard, which allows the encoding of a party’s
 identifying details in its structure.

 Certificate Authorities
 As you’ve seen, an actor or a node is able to participate in the blockchain network, via the means of a digital
 identity issued for it by an authority trusted by the system. In the most common case, digital identities
 (or simply identities) have the form of cryptographically validated digital certificates that comply with X.509
 standard and are issued by a Certificate Authority (CA).

Fabric CA
It’s because CAs are so important that Fabric provides a built-in CA component to allow you to create CAs in the
blockchain networks you form. This component — known as Fabric CA is a private root CA provider capable of managing
digital identities of Fabric participants that have the form of X.509 certificates. Because Fabric CA is a custom CA
targeting the Root CA needs of Fabric, it is inherently not capable of providing SSL certificates for general/automatic
use in browsers. However, because some CA must be used to manage identity (even in a test environment), Fabric CA can be
used to provide and manage certificates. It is also possible — and fully appropriate — to use a public/commerical root
or intermediate CA to provide identification.

Certificate Revocation Lists
A Certificate Revocation List (CRL) is easy to understand — it’s just a list of references to certificates that a CA
knows to be revoked for one reason or another. If you recall the store scenario, a CRL would be like a list of stolen
credit cards.

When a third party wants to verify another party’s identity, it first checks the issuing CA’s CRL to make sure that the
certificate has not been revoked. A verifier doesn’t have to check the CRL, but if they don’t they run the risk of
accepting a compromised identity.